[Music]
this is the only fortnite optimization
guide you will ever need I've made
several highly rated optimization guides
and today I'm going to show you every
single thing I did to get over 1,500 FPS
and I did it on a $750 PC I've tested
all these optimizations across five
different builds both desktops and
laptops to ensure that these tips work
no matter what system you're using after
following this video not only will you
see a significant boost in fps and
decrease in latency but my goal is to
make your FPS just as stable as mine so
you will never have to watch another one
of these videos ever again I know this
is probably the 80 billionth time
someone told you to go into your
fortnite settings but this will be the
last time because we're going a lot
deeper and I'm going to show you how I
get 1% lows above 200 FPS and insanely
low input delay and it all starts with
fully optimizing your fortnite settings
open the game and go to your settings
and here you will see all of your
display settings for Window mode you can
choose between Windows full screen and
exclusive full screen but it will depend
on your specific computer as some people
will see better fps using one or the
other and this is the exact reason why
even Pro players can't seem to agree on
just one Window mode for now stick to
whichever one gives you better fps
however if you have multiple monitors
you may want to stick on window full
screen no matter what since it lets you
seamlessly move your mouse across
monitors if you choose windowed full
screen it will automatically select your
resolution size but if you switch to
full screen make sure to select your
monitor's native resolution it might be
tempting to reduce it to increase your
FPS but using a different resolution to
your monitor monor can sometimes make
things like text look blurry but if
you're seeing a performance hit because
your computer just isn't good enough
we'll fix this issue by instead changing
the 3D resolution setting in just a
moment the next setting is vsync and you
probably know what it does at this point
but as a quick refresher it ensures that
every frame you see on your screen is a
full frame which can help with screen
tearing however vsync will increase your
latency because it makes your computer
wait for a full frame to render before
it appears on your monitor making it
much worse compared to having it off
you'll see that with vsync on we do get
margin better process latency but worse
ISR latency and significantly worse DPC
latency I'll go over what these actually
mean later in the video but for now all
you need to know is that the lower the
better but here's where it gets
interesting the frame rate limit I used
to say to ignore it if you're not
stuttering in fortnite but with so many
ways to limit your FPS I recently
discovered that the way you cap it can
boost your 1% lows more than any
optimization and this is not an
exaggeration just take a look at these
benchmarks here on the left I'm getting
very high 1% lows at 20 111 FPS which is
pretty impressive because when I did the
exact same Benchmark with the frame cap
at 240 FPS it dipped all the way down to
163 now at this point you would think
that you should uncap your FPS to get
both higher average FPS and 1% lows
however when I instead cap my FPS using
Reva tuner it makes that 21 FPS look
like nothing now that I'm getting 1%
lows of 240 FPS the two curious people
who tested this after seeing my
community post also saw similar results
dramatically boosting their 1% and 0.1%
lows I almost forgot to talk about
latency I mean just look at the
difference normally I just use this
software to show my FPS on screen but
now I honestly think that all of you
should cap your FPS with it too you
might be wondering if there's a way to
get this same effect without downloading
anything but the answer is not that
simple as you can see results can vary
wildly depending on how you cap your FPS
whether you're using the in-game cap
Nvidia control panel or Reva tuner but
since I'm seeing Flawless results with
Reva tuner I'm going to show you how to
download use it but before you install
anything on your PC be sure to create a
restore point in case you accidentally
changed the wrong setting or install the
wrong app so Press Your Windows key and
type in create a restart point when you
see this window click on configure turn
on system protection and Slide the
slider to make as much space as you need
for restore points since you might want
to create multiple as you follow this
guide once you're happy with that click
on apply and then okay next click on
Create and name it something funny
unless you're boring and lame and stupid
and dumb this might take upwards of five
whole seconds but when it's done click
on okay to close the window so if you
ever run into an issue during this video
and can't fix it by yourself you can
access your restore point by going back
to the same place you created it however
even with a restore point you should be
wary of what you're downloading on the
internet but as long as you're not being
dumb you should be good to go anyways if
you want super stable 1% lows like me I
would recommend downloading revat tuner
through the MSI afterburner download
page which I will link in the
description on the website just click on
the final version because it will always
be the most stable and that's the
version that I use as well the setup is
pretty straightforward the only thing
you'll have to watch out for is Norton
360 because that's just an obnoxious
antivirus that we are not here to
download but when you see revat tuner it
should be checked automatically and just
proceed with the installation once you
have both MSI After Burner and Reva
tuner installed open them both up if
they fail to open they may be hiding in
your system tray at the bottom right so
just click this up arrow and single
click on their icons when you have
afterburner opened click on settings
then start with Windows and start
minimized this will be super convenient
later on do the same thing with Reva
tuner by clicking the switch next to
start with Windows then click on the
blue setup button and check off the box
next to start minimized after that you
will see the box next to frame rate
limit and all you need to do there is
click on zero type in your target FPS
and press enter once all of that is done
you should experience the smoothest
gaming you've ever seen oh and make sure
you set your ingame frame limiter to
unlimited if you forgot however no
amount of FPS is going to save you if
your ping sucks so before we move on to
the rest of the fortnite settings I'm
going to show you how I get zero Ping On
My Own servers 20 ping on na Central and
60 Ping On EU and the way I do it is
with exit lag and to prove that it
really does work here I am in fortnite
at around 12 ping which is very playable
but with exit lag I managed to drop that
down to a single digit as I've said time
and time again I've been recommending it
ever since I accidentally discovered
that it genuinely works and I literally
never play online video games without it
it's a software designed to reduce ping
latency and packet loss and whether your
ping is too high or you're straight up
lagging now is the perfect time to give
it a try because you can get yourself a
free trial with no credit card
information so so to get a free trial
head over to the link in the description
then click on get exit lag at the top
right and scroll down click on create an
account type in a name email and
password you can skip step three for now
because we're just getting the free
trial to see if it actually works for
you and it only needs your credit card
information if you end up buying it but
once you've clicked on register click on
your name at the top right and in that
drop- down menu click on download then
click on download exit lag and follow
this super easy installation steps when
you open the app though it should look
just like this so scroll down a little
bit and press on optimize game select
the game you want to optimize your
connection for select your region and
apply routes for the lowest possible
latency if the free trial worked for you
now is the best time to subscribe
because there's currently a 50% sale on
the annual plan so be sure to click the
link in the description or scan the QR
code to check out now let's get back to
the fortnite settings next is rendering
mode and unless you get FPS drops in
performance mode I would recommend
performance mode because it has several
advantages over dx12 dx12 has much
longer render times which makes building
and editing significantly harder and if
you've ever actually tried playing on
dx12 you know exactly what I'm talking
about here despite dx12 offering more
settings multiple settings are linked to
the view distance setting even impacting
hair physics so if you want your builds
to be low meshes with minimal visual
effects you need to have Near View
distance but if you want to see items
from further away it forces you to have
high meshes so performance mode is the
clear winner the next five settings have
absolutely no impact on your performance
so it is all personal preference what
can make an impact though is 3D
resolution for those of you who are on
laptops or budget PCS you might see an
FPS increase by decreasing your 3D
resolution because it changes how many
pixels your computer is rendering in
every frame however it is important to
note that this percentage affects both
height and width for example if you have
a 1440p monitor and set the percentage
to 50% that will change your game
resolution to 720p even though the pixel
count of 720p is a lot less than 50% of
1440p however if you aren't seeing any
performance issues at 100% like in my
case you will gain absolutely nothing
from decreasing your 3D resolution and
the only thing that's going to change is
your GPU usage but for me personally I
paid for the whole GPU so I'm going to
use the whole GPU view distance is an
interesting one because it does affect
performance a tiny bit in some cases
like if you're playing on a laptop with
integrated Graphics but otherwise it's
personal preference and I like to leave
it on Far textures is a weird setting
because fortnite is the only game where
I start to stutter when I turn it up to
Mac settings so leave this on low the
meshes setting is also up to you but
keep in mind that high meshes does give
you a performance hit
and of course show your FPS and disable
report performance stats next thing
we're going to do is go into the game
settings the fourth tab at the top and
scroll down until you see the replay
settings you'll see that epic games
themselves state that recording replays
can reduce performance and take up hard
drive space but if you're on a capable
PC this actually has no effect on
performance at all when I compared
having all the replay settings on to
having them all off I actually recorded
higher FPS with high quality replays on
this was likely due to margin of error
but that just goes to show that not all
these optimizations will work for
everyone in conclusion leave replays off
if you don't need them but if you want
to record replays it probably won't make
too much of a difference as long as your
PC is capable enough that's it for the
fortnite settings so let's get into some
essential windows optimizations that you
need to do on your PC these are a lot of
simple oneclick switches but for the
little time it takes to do these I
definitely think these are all worth
doing but one very important warning
before we start do not copy exactly what
I do without testing these optimizations
yourself copying my tweaks word for word
is like following my hair care routine
when we all have completely different
hair types every PC is different and
what works for me might not work the
same for you the point of this video is
to show you what actually affects your
latency and FPS so you can tweak these
settings on your own system now that
we're looking at latency numbers I think
this would be a good time to actually
explain what each of these values
actually mean starting with ISR
execution an ISR is an interrupt service
routine in fortnite terms it's the first
step of detecting a mouse click and the
ISR reacts so that your PC detects the
action with minimal delay DPC routines
run after the ISR to handle screen
updates and playing sound effects after
the ISR detects the click the DPC
processes the animation and sound the
DPC latency is how long this processing
takes and if the DPC latency is too high
this can cause video stutters and audio
cutouts and finally interrupt to process
latency this is the total time from when
you click your mouse to when fortnite
processes the input and updates the
screen when you click to shoot the game
has to recognize the input process it
and actually show it all happening in
game if this latency is too high your
builds edits and shots will feel delayed
late if any of these types of latencies
sound like something you want to reduce
be sure to pay attention to the pro ISR
and DPC numbers let's start with debling
your computer to improve your gaming
performance and overall system
responsiveness this is mostly useful on
a brand new windows install but if
you've already debled your computer this
part of the video will realistically not
do for those of you who haven't
debloated your Windows though we're
going to start by using the Chris Titus
Tech utility because it's completely
safe and you don't need to download
anything first we need to open Windows
Powershell to open it just press press
Windows plus X and click on Terminal
admin from here you just need to copy
and paste the script from the
description of the video and press enter
once it's done loading it should look
something like this you can download and
uninstall pretty much any useful
software you can think of from this page
but for now we're just going to go to
The Tweak section at the top because
that's where most of my performance
boost comes from if you want to get it
over with super quick just click on
standard or minimal at the top then
click run tweaks at the bottom this gets
90% of the job done in about 2 seconds
but for the rest of you who want to use
the same optimizations as myself I'm
going to show you and explain what
settings I personally use of course
we're going to create another restore
point in case anything goes wrong clear
out the temp folder and disable consumer
features if you're on Windows 10 this
will be important as this will prevent
windows from automatically installing
things on your computer but for Windows
11 users like me checking the Box
doesn't do anything I just leave it
checked for the sake of checking a box
next is disabling Microsoft Telemetry
and in simple terms Telemetry collects
and sends info from your computer to
Microsoft to help them improve their
software which is great for them but but
it's an invasive process that does
affect your computer's performance
negatively next we're going to turn off
activity history when it's on your
computer keeps track of the apps you use
websites you visit and files you open
and this information is uploaded online
to your Microsoft account by turning it
off your computer stops tracking these
things both improving your privacy and
reducing unnecessary background tasks I
would also turn off game DVR the only
reason you would ever need to worry
about this is if you play any games
downloaded from the Microsoft store but
if you don't then turning this off is a
no-brainer hibernation is allow toop
feature so if you're on desktop it's up
to you whether or not you want to
disable it because you do get a slight
performance uplift especially if you're
using a hard drive instead of an SSD but
if you're on a laptop leave it alone no
matter what disabling home group is also
a no-brainer it's likely that your
version of Windows doesn't even have it
installed as it was removed since
Windows 10 version 1803 but just like
consumer features you might as well
check the box anyways prefer ipv4 over
IPv6 is a network optimization some
people will say to just fully disable
IPv6 but that will break some windows
functions so that's why it's recommended
to do this instead then disable location
tracking because you don't need it
disable storage sense to free up some
CPU Cycles disable Wi-Fi sense as it's a
spying service enable end task with
right click because it's super useful
when one of your apps stop responding
run disc clean up to remove your
previous Windows updates replace
Powershell 5 with 7 and disable
Powershell 7 Telemetry for the same
reasons as Microsoft Telemetry I used to
make fun of recall but apparently it's a
huge privacy concern massive even so
definitely disable that set hibernation
as default if you're on a laptop and set
services to manual setting them to
manual only activates them when you need
them again giving your PC some more
performance and finally for the
essential tweaks click on dblow edge in
the advanced tweaks I would recommend
only disabling Adobe Network block Adobe
debloat disable background apps and
disable Microsoft co-pilot I'm sure
there's more you can do here but I have
yet to test them personally so I'm not
going to tell you to do them just
because they could possibly break some
Windows features in the customized
preferences section you can copy my
exact settings if you want your windows
to look just like mine just before we
finish up click this to apply the AL
ultimate performance power plant once
all that is done click on run tweaks and
it'll take between a few seconds and a
few minutes depending on what options
you chose now for power plans you might
think that we're just going to stay on
the ultimate performance power plan but
since power plans have a pretty big
impact on both Laten C and frame rate
we're going to spend some time to help
you pick from the multiple viable
options let's begin with finding out
which one gives you the highest raw FPS
using the max FPS test on average the
best power plan in terms of raw FPS goes
to the ultimate performance power plan
with an average frame rate of 921 and a
1% low of 444 easily beating out every
other power plan tested today but does
the ultimate performance power plan win
in latency after running the same exact
replay three times for each Benchmark I
found that the high performance plan had
the edge over everyone in ISR execution
vrol had the best performance in DPC and
the ultimate performance power plan
comes out on top yet again for interrupt
to process latency in conclusion the
ultimate performance power plan is the
best for process latency has the overall
best average placement in every category
has the highest average FPS and the best
1% lows that's all for the power plan so
let's move on to the rest of the windows
optimizations next we'll disable memory
Integrity in the core isolation settings
it has been proven time and time again
that FPS increases with these settings
off and it seems like latency is better
as well even Microsoft acknowledges that
this security feature can slow down your
PC why because it uses hardware
virtualization to create an isolated
environment almost like running
everything in a virtual machine to
disable memory integ Press Your Windows
key and type in core isolation and as
you could probably expect the other
settings in here are also unnecessary
security features however you might have
noticed that Microsoft vulnerable driver
block list is grayed out but all you
need to do is restart your PC after
turning off memory Integrity then you
can disable it next press your Windows
key type in game mode press enter and
turn on game mode people have been
calling this a placebo for years but I
got way worse delay with it off so
definitely try turning it on from here
click on Graphics then change default
Graphics settings if you chose to play
on window full screen turn off
optimizations for windowed games but if
you chose to play on exclusive full
screen this will not affect you
according to Microsoft themselves it
should give you better frame latency on
dx10 and 11 games and it just so happens
that fortnite performance mode runs on
dx11 so why would I recommend against
turning this on well according to my
results Microsoft appears to be capping
as we are getting worse latency across
the board though process latency is the
main thing we're looking for when it
comes to frame latency the difference
we're seeing here is under 2 micros and
in the other two categories we are
seeing much worse numbers you might also
see a setting in here called Hardware
accelerated GPU scheduling in simple
terms it just puts more work onto the
GPU instead of the CPU the majority of
people should be turning this on
especially for fortnite as it is a CPU
base game and basically anything that
offloads workloads onto your GPU will
help boost your frame rates I've seen
some people say that is not good for VR
due to some encoding issues but it's
very likely that Nvidia has dealt with
this bug since then because you cannot
use frame generation a feature that
Nvidia constantly advertises without the
setting turned on I couldn't help but
notice though that the RAM and vram
usage both increase significantly with
hags on so just like the other
optimizations in this video I would
personally test the settings separately
from the others and it will not be the
same on different games moving on to the
Nvidia control panel for those of you
who do not have an Nvidia graphics card
skip this entire chapter of the video
you might have seen a few YouTubers talk
about how Nvidia control panel is
outdated and no longer affects newer
games however it doesn't take much to
prove that it still affects performance
in fortnite after three test runs with
and without optimizations on both my RTX
4000 Ada and my RTX 360 laptop we saw
anywhere from 2 to 10% better
performance just from spending 3 minutes
on the control panel start by opening
the Nvidia control panel then double
click on manage 3D settings now I can't
guarantee that these changes won't
affect other games especially older ones
but since this is a fortnite specific
video we're going to customize the
settings just for fortnite to avoid
confusion so go to program settings
click add and select fortnite if you
don't see it I'll leave the fortnite
directory in the description for you to
copy just press browse paste it into
file explore and select the game that's
exactly what I'll be doing today as well
but just before we change the fortnite
specific settings there's one Global
setting we should change first so click
on global settings and scroll down until
you see Shader cache size adjusting
Shader cache size to 10 GB has
historically helps people with
stuttering and it is likely that you
might even see an increase in frame rate
you can change it to 100 GB for sure but
it's almost impossible to fill that up
and it's just going to take up space on
your drives now we're ready to go back
into the program settings set image
scaling and ambient occlusion off these
are both completely unnecessary for
Competitive Gaming leave an isotropic
filtering to application controlled it
basically makes textures look better
from different angles and leaving it on
application controlled allows fortnite
to handle anisotropic filtering
anti-aliasing FXAA should be left off
anti-aliasing is used to smooth out
edges and although FXAA is one of the
least demanding forms of it it's still
something you should have disabled and
just like FXAA these other anti-aliasing
settings should be turned off for
fortnite background application Max
frame rate is self-explanatory leave
this off Cuda gpus is set to all but for
those of you with multiple then pick
whichever one you want the game to run
on Cuda sisam fallback policy is not
even worth explaining for fortnite
because you will almost never run out of
vram in this game but this basically
tells your GPU what to do if you run out
of vram so I leave it on driver default
low latency mode is off for now as we're
looking for the best possible frame rate
but having it on never hurt in my
experience Max frame rate is off because
Reva tuner is much better for capping
FPS at least for me and MFA is off for
the same reason as FXAA openg GDI
compatibility set to Auto is usually
best and openg rendering GPU can be left
on auto unless you have multiple
graphics cards power management mode is
on prefer maximum performance I've never
ran into any issues setting this on
prefer maximum performance as someone
who has used some of the lowest power
gpus in the market such as the 80 W RTX
360p toop GPU and a 70 W RTX 4000 sff
Ada it is still possible that you might
get worse performance here but if you're
skeptical you can always mess around
with it preferred refresh rate is the
highest available because we're capping
our FPS using Reva tuner for better
performance anyways texture filtering
and isotropic Sample optimization is on
this reduces processing load Without
Really affecting your game texture
filtering negative LOD bias is on allow
by default and out of the two options
this gives you the best performance
texture filtering quality is on high
performance because we don't need high
quality Textures in fortnite texture
filtering trilinear optimization is on
for the same reason as an isotropic
sample optimization threaded
optimization is said to be a feature
that takes advantage of several
processor cores at once and it's kind of
across the board because it depends on
your CPU I personally leave it on auto
but feel free to mess around with it
triple buffering much like vsync helps
with screen tearing but introduces input
lag I don't know a single person who has
this on because it is completely useless
in comp games and as I mentioned just
now vertical sink should almost always
be off again again I don't know a single
person who has this on both VR settings
are at their default settings and
finally Vulcan /op present method is on
auto for my AMD viewers you guys are
blessed to not have to deal with a
software that looks like it hasn't been
updated since 2009 but before we start
let me show you my results so you know
what to expect although the average FPS
increase was within the margin of error
and the 1% lows only went up by 2% the
efficiency boost you get by optimizing
your AMD software is incredible take a
quick look at the RAM and vram usage
yeah it's kind of crazy that we're using
a gigabyte less of each so to quickly
optimize your GPU just right click on
your desktop and open AMD software to
optimize your GPU specifically for
fortnite click on gaming games and then
fortnite but if you already have
fortnite running in the background the
fortnite specific settings will show up
automatically we're actually going to
ignore all these graphic settings and go
straight into advanced on texture
filtering quality set that to
Performance to prioritize performance
over image quality surface format
optimization lets your GPU use more
efficient formats to improve performance
and reduce video memory usage to make
this make more sense think of image
files and how they have their own
different formats like JPEG and PNG
basically what this setting does is it
allows your GPU to automatically choose
the best formats for each texture and
render surface for best performance and
efficiency giving you better fps and
lower vram usage it's best to keep it
enabled for smoother gameplay for
tessellation mode we are going to
override the fortnite settings and set
our maximum tessellation level to off
tessellation basically adds more detail
and depth to surfaces by subdividing
geometry and and applying displacement
Maps but as you can see here it's almost
impossible to notice from distance
however adding a 2% FPS increase just
from one setting is pretty good the last
thing we're going to do is click on the
settings Cog click preferences and
disable all of this nonsense and that's
it restart your PC and you're good to go
now for some bios tweaks to get into the
BIOS restart your computer then while it
boots up hold or spam the F2 or delete
key until you get in if those don't work
just hold down shift while pressing
restart then select troubleshoot
Advanced option UEFI firmware settings
and click restart probably the most
popular bios tweak is enabling XMP Expo
docp or a XMP and there's a high chance
that you were told to turn this on in
the past but for those of you who don't
know what it does or avoided it until
now having it disabled only slows down
your RAM speeds and by turning it on I'm
able to get my 6,000 megga transfers
that I paid for instead of 4,800 there
are some RAM sticks that don't support
this technology but for the vast
majority of you this will significantly
boost your FPS usually the setting to
turn on is right in your face when you
get into the BIOS and if you're
struggling to find it it's probably not
your fault your PC most likely doesn't
support it and after you're done turning
this on Save and boot back into Windows
to make sure that your PC is still
working properly the next bios tweak is
a pretty common one as well disabling
hyperthreading on Intel CPUs or smt on
AMD CPUs but for fortnite specifically I
think you should actually enable both of
these settings my Intel laptop was
actually performing really well after a
clean reset but after turning off
hyperthreading everything became worse
so I ended up re-enabling it you would
think that it couldn't get any worse on
AMD but I got worse performance with smt
disabled and my PC put itself into
automatic repair because of it this took
me an hour to fix so if you ask me I
would definitely leave both
hyperthreading and smt on and never
touch it again but not everyone's PC is
going to be the same and it is an option
for a reason so you might as well try it
and that's everything I had for today so
if you found this helpful or think I
missed something let me know down in the
comments
[Music]